 I have the pleasure to present to you Dr. Martin Luther King. Yeah! I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. Five score years ago, a great American in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the emancipation proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity. But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination one hundred years later. The Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity one hundred years later. The Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. And so we've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition. In a sense we've come to our nation's capital to cash a check. In the architects of our republic, wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. They were signing a promise or a note to whichever American was to fall out. This note was a promise at all men. Yes, black men as well as white men. To be guaranteed the unalienable rights of life, liberty and a pursuit of happiness. It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promise or a note in so far as her citizens of color or concern. Instead of honoring this sacred obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check or check which has come back mark insufficient funds. But we refuse to believe that the Bank of Justice is bankrupt. We refuse to believe that our insufficient funds and the great bolts of opportunity of this nation. And so we've come to cash this check or check that will give us a pun demand, the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have also come to this hell of spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of now. This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. Now is the time to lift our nation from the quick sense of racial independence. Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. This sweltering summer of the Negroes legitimate discontent will not pass until that is an invigorating autumn of the nation. The freedom and equality. 1963 is not an end but a beginning. Those who hope that the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual. The Negroes will be neither rest nor tranquillity in America until the Negroes granted his citizenship rights. The world wins and the revolt will continue to shake the foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges. But that is something that I must say to my people who stand on the wrong threshold which leads into the palace of justice. In the process of gaining our rightful place, we must not be guilty of wrongfully and ungrateful. In the process of gaining our rightful place, we must not be guilty of wrongfully and ungrateful. In the process of gaining our rightful place, we must not be guilty of wrongfully and ungrateful. Let us not seek the sight of fire first for freedom by drinking from the cup of fiddles and hints. We must fail for the last struggle on the high flame of kicks and khandism. We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. We can't end again. We must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force for soul force. The marvelous new militancy which has endowed the Negro community must not lead us to a distrust of all white people. We may have our white folks as evidenced by their presence here today. And from the real life of that density of our lives. If I'm realized that freedom is in its strictly bound to our freedom, we cannot walk alone. As we walk, we must make the plans that we shall always march ahead. We cannot turn back. There are those who are asking the devotees of civil rights. When will you be satisfied? We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is a good fit for all the young, spiritual horrors of police brutality. We can never be satisfied. As long as our body and religion was a particular travel. They're not getting larger in the more chaos in the highways than the whole chaos with the city. We cannot be satisfied as long as the Negro in Mississippi cannot vote. And the Negro in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. No, no, we are not satisfied and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty street. I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from now a jail sale. Some of you have come from areas where your press quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution. And staggered by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Continue to work with the faith that online suffering is redemptive. Go back to Mississippi. Go back to Alabama. Go back to South Carolina. Go back to Georgia. Go back to Louisiana. Go back to the slums and get holes in our northern cities. Knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley of despair. I say to you today, my friends. So even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed. We hold these truths to be self evident that all men are created. I have a dream that one day on the Red Hills of Georgia, the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners, will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. I have a dream that one day, even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. I have a dream today. I have a dream that one day, down in Alabama with its vicious racists, with its governor having his lips tripping with the words of interposition and nullification. One day right down in Alabama, little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers. I have a dream today. I have a dream that one day every valor shall be exalted. Every hill in mounting shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain and the crooked places will be made straight and the goal of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together. This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this faith, we will be able to hue out of the mountain of despair, a stone of hope. With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith, we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. This will be the day. This will be the day when all of God's children will be able to sing with new meaning my country tears of thee. Sweet land of liberty of the icing, land where my father's died, land of the pilgrim's pride. From every mountainside, let freedom reign in the Americas to be a great nation. This must become true. So let freedom reign from the prodigious hill tops of New Hampshire. Let freedom reign from the mighty mountains of New York. Let freedom reign from the heightening alligators of Pennsylvania. Let freedom reign from the snow cap Rockers of Colorado. Let freedom reign from the crevice of slopes of California. But not only that, let freedom reign from stone mountain of Georgia. Let freedom reign from look out mountain of Tennessee. Let freedom reign from every hill and whole hill of Mississippi. From every mountainside, let freedom reign and when this happens. When we allow freedom reign, when we let it reign from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city. We will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics. We'll be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual. To create last, create last, take God Almighty, we'll create last.